docs/dev.md, before:

# Development

## Table of Contents

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink=true -->

- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Fixtures](#fixtures)
- [Develop on mobile](#develop-on-mobile)
  - [Get a working Android environment](#get-a-working-android-environment)
    - [Linux](#linux)
    - [macOS](#macos)
  - [Build and run the mobile app](#build-and-run-the-mobile-app)
  - [Hot reload on mobile app](#hot-reload-on-mobile-app)
- [Release](#release)
  - [Start a release branch](#start-a-release-branch)
  - [Workflow](#workflow)
  - [Mobile apps version codes](#mobile-apps-version-codes)
  - [Publish manually on the Cozy registry](#publish-manually-on-the-cozy-registry)
  - [Publish to mobile stores](#publish-to-mobile-stores)
    - [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites)
    - [Fastlane](#fastlane)
    - [iOS](#ios)
      - [Signing](#signing)
      - [iOS build](#ios-build)
    - [Android](#android)
- [Notifications](#notifications)
  - [How to develop on templates](#how-to-develop-on-templates)
    - [Under the covers](#under-the-covers)
    - [Assets](#assets)
  - [Debug notification triggers](#debug-notification-triggers)
  - [When creating a notification](#when-creating-a-notification)
  - [End to end tests](#end-to-end-tests)
    - [Alert rules](#alert-rules)
      - [Automatic tests](#automatic-tests)
      - [Manual insertion test](#manual-insertion-test)
  - [Misc](#misc)
    - [Icons](#icons)
- [Pouch On Web](#pouch-on-web)
- [Important credentials](#important-credentials)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## Getting started

You need to have `yarn` installed. If you don't, please check the [official
documentation](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) and follow the instructions
to install it on your system.

Then you can install the dependencies:

```console
$ yarn
```

Develop:

```console
$ yarn start
```

And build:

```console
$ yarn build
```

Please note that for the project to work, you will need to have a working
cozy-stack. See [how to run a cozy
application](https://docs.cozy.io/en/howTos/dev/runCozyDocker/#ephemeral-instance)
for more information.

When watching, you still need to have a cozy-stack running to serve the files
of the app (do not use the webpack-dev-server directly). This is important as
the stack injects through template variables the *token* and *domain* used to
connect to the cozy.

⚠️ CSPs must be disabled when working with the development server (as the
`index.html` is served via the stack but the JS assets are served via
webpack-dev-server). You can do this via a browser extension
([Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/disable-content-security/ieelmcmcagommplceebfedjlakkhpden))
or you can tell the stack to disable CSPs via its config file (`disable_csp: true`, check here for [more
info](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-stack/config/#main-configuration-file) on
the config file). See an example config file
[here](https://github.com/CPatchane/create-cozy-app/blob/8329c7161a400119076a7e2734191607437f0dcc/packages/cozy-scripts/stack/disableCSP.yaml#L6).

## Fixtures

While developing, it is convenient to be able to inject and remove arbitraty data on your local instance.

We have a set of fake banking data in the
[`test/fixtures/demo.json`](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/test/fixtures/demo.json)
file that you can inject in your instance using the `yarn fixtures` command.

If you want to inject other data or remove some data, you can use [`ACH`](https://github.com/cozy/ACH).

## Develop on mobile

### Get a working Android environment

#### Linux

To be able to build the app for Android, you can follow [this
guide](https://gist.github.com/drazik/11dfe2014a6b967821df93b9e10353f4) (in
French for now, don't hesitate to open a pull
request).

#### macOS

On macOS you can use adoptOpenJDK to have a working Java environment.

See https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/homebrew-openjdk

```
brew cask install adoptopenjdk8
# Check the adopt open JDK page to see how to install the shell function "jdk"
jdk 8 # Cordova supports JDK version 1.8 (same as version 8 it seems)
brew install gradle
```

### Build and run the mobile app

To build the mobile app, you first have to run one of the following commands:

```console
# One-shot build
$ yarn build:mobile
# To develop
$ yarn start:mobile
```

Then you can run the app on the desired platform. For Android:

```console
# Run on a real device
$ yarn android:run
# Run on an emulator
$ yarn android:run:emulator
```

For iOS:

```console
# Run on a real device
$ yarn ios:run
# Run on an emulator
$ yarn ios:run:emulator
```

### Hot reload on mobile app

```
# Replace the host with your own host (find it with ifconfig)
$ env DEV_HOST=192.168.1.36 yarn build:mobile
$ yarn ios:run # at this point the app is blank since it cannot access the files from your host
$ env DEV_HOST=192.168.1.36 yarn start:mobile # launch a webpack-dev-server
```

⚠️⚠️⚠️ If you watch a production build, you must edit the webpack config to have
the filepath without the [hash] otherwise you will not hit the right JS file.

⚠️ You need to have the final `/` at the end of the PUBLIC_PATH, otherwise some some CSS resources like fonts will not load


## Release

A release consists in publishing the app on all platforms: web (via the [Cozy
Registry](https://apps-registry.cozycloud.cc/banks/registry)), Android (via the
Google Play Store, APKs are also linked to [Github
releases](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/releases)) and iOS (via the App
Store).

### Start a release branch

When starting a release, start the checklist PR with :

```
yarn release
```

This will ask for the next version number and create a release branch with it.
If you have [Hub](https://github.com/github/hub) installed (recommended), it
will also create the related pull request for you.

### Workflow

When a release branch is created, features are frozen and the branch should only receive bugfixes.

To create beta versions, you have to do two thinkgs:

* Bump the different version codes in `src/targets/mobile/config.xml` file (see below for more details`android-versionCode`, `ios-CFBundleVersion`, `version` and `AppendUserAgent`)
* Commit it and create a tag with the `X.Y.Z-beta.M` scheme (for example `1.5.0-beta.1`) and push them

The web app beta version will be automatically built and published on the cozy
registry. An APK for Android will also be automatically created. For iOS, you
have to build the app and upload it on Testflight.

### Mobile apps version codes

In the `src/targets/mobile/config.xml` file, you have to update multiple version codes:

* `version`: the generic version code
* `ios-CFBundleVersion`: the version code specific to iOS
* `android-versionCode`: the version code specific to Android
* `AppendUserAgent`: a version code that is appended to the user agent string so we can know which version is related to messages in error logs

Each version code is not built in the same way:

* `version` is the same as `version` in the `package.json`
* `ios-CFBundleVersion` is the same as `version`, but with a fourth number representing the beta version number (for example `1.5.0.1` for `1.5.0-beta.1`)
* For `android-versionCode`, follow the following formula: `beta + patch*100 + minor * 10000 + major * 1000000`. For example, `1.5.1-beta.1` gives us `1050101`
* `AppendUserAgent` is the same as `version`

### Publish manually on the Cozy registry

To publish manually on the Cozy registry, you need a token also stored in Cozy internal [password store](pass):

```
export REGISTRY_TOKEN=`pass registry/spaces/banks/banks.token`
```

After, you can use [cozy-app-publish](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-app-publish) to push the app to the registry.

More information : https://github.com/cozy/cozy-stack/blob/master/docs/registry-publish.md

### Publish to mobile stores

#### Pre-requisites

- Install cordova globally (necessary for the fastlane cordova plugin)

```
yarn global add cordova@<same version as in package.json>
```

- Generate icons

```
yarn mobile:icon
```

On iOS, if the given splashscreens are not to the resoution of the device, iOS
falls back to compatibility mode and adds blacks bars to the top/bottom of the
screen. This is particularly disgraceful on the iPhoneX which has an unusual screen
shape.

To fix this, we use a single splashscreen file and set XCode for it to use
Cordova's launch screen functionality.

`CozyBanks > Resources > Images.xcassets > LaunchStoryBoard > App icons and Launch images > LaunchScreenFile "CDVLaunchScreen"`

- Install Ruby, Bundler and project dependencies

See [Ruby installation page](https://www.ruby-lang.org/fr/documentation/installation/) to get the installation method for your system.

Install Bundler :

```
gem install bundler
```

Then install the project dependencies :

```
cd <path_to_project_root>/src/targets/mobile
bundler
```

- Manage iOS native libraries

```
sudo gem install cocoapods
pod setup
yarn ios:install_pods # Install pods according to the Podfile.lock
```

You must also have the `keys/` folder available from the internal password store.

#### Fastlane

Fastlane is used to manage automatically the deployment process. Its configuration is localed in`src/targets/mobile/fastlane/Fastfile`.

#### iOS

##### Signing

⚠️ You need to have your device registered to iTunes Connect. If you have trouble deploying your app on your device, check that the Build settings in XCode are correct :

While developing, in XCode, in the "Signing" section :

* Check "Manage automatically"
* Team "Cozy Cloud"
* Signing certificate : use a personal certificate belonging to the Cozy team (can be created when you have no matching certificate in the menu > Add an account).

The certificate with its password is stored in the shared password store.

- `cozy-banks/xcode-signing-certificate-password` : the password
- `cozy-banks/xcode-signing-certificate-password.p12` : the certificate


##### iOS build

To push an iOS build on Testflight, use the following command :

```
yarn build:mobile
cd src/targets/mobile
cordova prepare ios
open platforms/ios/Cozy\ Banks.xcworkspace/
# Then in XCode you can first do an archive
# 1. Select Cozy Banks > Any iOS Device (arm64) as generic device
# 2. Menu Product > Archive
# 3. Distribute app
# After the application has been distributed, it is available for
# Testflight testers and @flo can then manually put the testflight
# app in production
```

To fully publish the app, go to iTunes Connect using the credentials in the password store and "submit for review".

When publishing a new version, you have to change the build number.

You can do it in the `config.xml` file by changing the "ios-CFBundleVersion" widget attribute. If you do it in config.xml
you can commit it and push it so that other contributors know at
which version we are.

You can also do it manually in XCode by selecting the "Cozy Banks"
project on the left navbar and then in the "General" tab change
the build number in the "Build" input (in general you just have
to increment the 4th part of the build number). It's not recommended
as other contributors may not know at which build number we are
if the change is not commited. It can be handy while developing
when you do not want to commit/push too often.


#### Android

Anytime a beta is tagged, Travis produces an APK in the Android stage.
In the logs is displayed an URL for the APK that has been built.
This APK can then be tested and then pushed and published in the Play
Developer Console.

## Notifications

### How to develop on templates

With the `TEST_TEMPLATES` environment variable, an express server serving the HTML emails will be built.

```
$ env TEST_TEMPLATES=true yarn watch:services
$ node build/testTemplates.js
Rendering emails at http://localhost:8081!
```

You can open your browser to check the emails. The Preview feature
in Mailchimp is also useful to check that everything is correctly rendered on the various email clients (just copy/paste the content of the page).

#### Under the covers

The templates are [Handlebars](http://handlebarsjs.com/) templates using the
[mjml](https://mjml.io/documentation) language. `mjml` greatly reduces the pains to develop an
email template as it deals with a lot of quirks for you. It features ready-made
components to make responsive email templates. Behind the scene, it uses `React`
to implement custom components, and [juice](https://github.com/Automattic/juice)
to inline the CSS into the HTML. The [handlebars-layouts](https://github.com/shannonmoeller/handlebars-layouts) plugin is used to provide an easy way to extend a base template (à la `jinja`)

Other templates :

```
nodemon --exec "node transactions-notification.js" -e js,css,hbs,json
```

#### Assets

Assets in `assets/` are uploaded to `https://downcloud.cozycloud.cc` on every deployment on CI. It can also be done manually with the `yarn uploadStaticFiles` script.

### Debug notification triggers

To debug notifications, you have to launch a watch on the notifications.js and then
launch it with `cozy-run-dev`.

⚠️ You have to temporarily add `io.cozy.accounts` to your manifest so that you can
create a dev account to test the service.

```diff
       "type": "io.cozy.notifications",
       "verbs": ["POST"]
     },
+    "account": {
+      "description": "Used to send notifications",
+      "type": "io.cozy.accounts",
+      "verbs": ["POST"]
+    },
     "bank.settings": {
       "description": "Used to manage your bank settings",
       "type": "io.cozy.bank.settings",
```


```bash
$ yarn watch:services # will continuously build `build/notifications.js`
$ nodemon --delay 1 -w build/notifications.js --exec "cozy-konnector-dev -t /tmp/token.json -m manifest.webapp build/notifications.js" # will launch build/notifications.js (and relaunch it when it changes) with the right COZY_CREDENTIALS, /tmp/token.json is where the token will be stored
```

To see the emails that the stack sends, launch a MailHog instance :

```
docker run -p 1025:1025 -p 8025:8025 mailhog/mailhog
```

The stack will send the emails through the SMTP port of MailHog and you
will be able to see the mails in its web interface on http://localhost:8025.


https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/tree/master/src/ducks/notifications/html

### When creating a notification

If you want to test the notifications in a workflow that is very close to the real one, you can import some fixtures to trigger the service execution. For that, you must open the `test/fixtures/operations-notifs.json` file and edit the following :

* the `_id` field of the documents, so they are unique and will create a new document
* the `account` field of the `io.cozy.bank.operations` documents to match an account id that exist on the instance you will import the fixtures to
* the dates and the labels to be able to see the imported documents easily

Then you can use [ACH] to import the fixtures :

```console
ACH import test/fixtures/operations-notifs.json test/fixtures/helpers.js --url <instance_url>
```

### End to end tests

#### Alert rules

##### Automatic tests

Alert rules are tested with automatic tests that

- Inserts data inside the local cozy-stack
- Launches the onOperationOrBillCreate service
- Checks on mailhog the emails received
- Checks on a mock push server the push notifications received

```
$ export COZY_URL=http://cozy.tools:8080
$ export COZY_CREDENTIALS=$(cozy-stack instances token-app cozy.tools:8080 banks)
$ docker run -p 1025:1025 -p 8025:8025 mailhog/mailhog
# Deactivate minification with minimize: false in webpack.optimize inside webpack.target.services.js
$ env NODE_ENV=services:production yarn webpack --config webpack.config.js --bail --watch
$ yarn test:e2e:alerts
```

At the moment, it needs to be launched on the computer of the developer but should
be done on the CI in the future.


⚠️  You need to have the services built for production for E2E tests to work.

⚠️ For push notifications tests to work, you need first to configure the stack so that
it uses a fake server that will receive push notifications.

- Add this to your [stack config file](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-stack/config/):

```
notifications:
   android_api_key: 'fake_android_api_key'
   fcm_server: 'http://localhost:3001'
```

##### Manual insertion test

To test on a real Cozy, a script can insert fake transactions on accounts corresponding
to alerts, for the onOperationOrBillCreate service to be started.

```
# Insert fake transactions
yarn test:e2e:alerts-existing-cozy --url https://mydemocozy.mycozy.cloud insert
# Cleanup fake transactions
yarn test:e2e:alerts-existing-cozy --url https://mydemocozy.mycozy.cloud cleanup
```


### Misc

#### Icons

🖼 The PNG icons that are included in the emails are generated manually from the SVG via `scripts/icons-to-png.sh` and uploaded automatically to files.cozycloud.cc via Jenkins (which follows the file `files.cozycloud.cc` at the root of the repo).

## Pouch On Web

If you want activate Pouch on web app, you need:
- a token
- launch your build with `FORCE_POUCH`

```
cozy-stack instances token-cli cozy.tools:8080 $(cat manifest.webapp | jq -r '[.permissions[] | .type] | join(" ")')
env FORCE_POUCH=true yarn start
```

Launch your web application and in console javascript fill in the token and refresh the page:

```
flag('cozyToken', <your token>)
```

Now you can play with replication:

```
cozyClient.links[0].startReplication()
cozyClient.links[0].stopReplication()
```

## Important credentials

All important credentials are stored in Cozy internal [password store](pass).
To import it execute `./scripts/import_mobile_keys`

[pass]: https://www.passwordstore.org/
[ACH]: https://github.com/cozy/ACH

Commit message:

docs: Improve docs on how to debug push notifications

docs/dev.md, after:

# Development

## Table of Contents

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink=true -->

- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Fixtures](#fixtures)
- [Develop on mobile](#develop-on-mobile)
  - [Get a working Android environment](#get-a-working-android-environment)
    - [Linux](#linux)
    - [macOS](#macos)
  - [Build and run the mobile app](#build-and-run-the-mobile-app)
  - [Hot reload on mobile app](#hot-reload-on-mobile-app)
- [Release](#release)
  - [Start a release branch](#start-a-release-branch)
  - [Workflow](#workflow)
  - [Mobile apps version codes](#mobile-apps-version-codes)
  - [Publish manually on the Cozy registry](#publish-manually-on-the-cozy-registry)
  - [Publish to mobile stores](#publish-to-mobile-stores)
    - [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites)
    - [Fastlane](#fastlane)
    - [iOS](#ios)
      - [Signing](#signing)
      - [iOS build](#ios-build)
    - [Android](#android)
- [Notifications](#notifications)
  - [How to develop on templates](#how-to-develop-on-templates)
    - [Under the covers](#under-the-covers)
    - [Assets](#assets)
  - [Debug notification triggers](#debug-notification-triggers)
    - [Emails](#emails)
    - [Push notifications](#push-notifications)
  - [When creating a notification](#when-creating-a-notification)
  - [End to end tests](#end-to-end-tests)
    - [Alert rules](#alert-rules)
      - [Automatic tests](#automatic-tests)
      - [Manual insertion test](#manual-insertion-test)
  - [Misc](#misc)
    - [Icons](#icons)
- [Pouch On Web](#pouch-on-web)
- [Important credentials](#important-credentials)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## Getting started

You need to have `yarn` installed. If you don't, please check the [official
documentation](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) and follow the instructions
to install it on your system.

Then you can install the dependencies:

```console
$ yarn
```

Develop:

```console
$ yarn start
```

And build:

```console
$ yarn build
```

Please note that for the project to work, you will need to have a working
cozy-stack. See [how to run a cozy
application](https://docs.cozy.io/en/howTos/dev/runCozyDocker/#ephemeral-instance)
for more information.

When watching, you still need to have a cozy-stack running to serve the files
of the app (do not use the webpack-dev-server directly). This is important as
the stack injects through template variables the *token* and *domain* used to
connect to the cozy.

⚠️ CSPs must be disabled when working with the development server (as the
`index.html` is served via the stack but the JS assets are served via
webpack-dev-server). You can do this via a browser extension
([Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/disable-content-security/ieelmcmcagommplceebfedjlakkhpden))
or you can tell the stack to disable CSPs via its config file (`disable_csp: true`, check here for [more
info](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-stack/config/#main-configuration-file) on
the config file). See an example config file
[here](https://github.com/CPatchane/create-cozy-app/blob/8329c7161a400119076a7e2734191607437f0dcc/packages/cozy-scripts/stack/disableCSP.yaml#L6).

## Fixtures

While developing, it is convenient to be able to inject and remove arbitraty data on your local instance.

We have a set of fake banking data in the
[`test/fixtures/demo.json`](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/blob/master/test/fixtures/demo.json)
file that you can inject in your instance using the `yarn fixtures` command.

If you want to inject other data or remove some data, you can use [`ACH`](https://github.com/cozy/ACH).

## Develop on mobile

### Get a working Android environment

#### Linux

To be able to build the app for Android, you can follow [this
guide](https://gist.github.com/drazik/11dfe2014a6b967821df93b9e10353f4) (in
French for now, don't hesitate to open a pull
request).

#### macOS

On macOS you can use adoptOpenJDK to have a working Java environment.

See https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/homebrew-openjdk

```
brew cask install adoptopenjdk8
# Check the adopt open JDK page to see how to install the shell function "jdk"
jdk 8 # Cordova supports JDK version 1.8 (same as version 8 it seems)
brew install gradle
```

### Build and run the mobile app

To build the mobile app, you first have to run one of the following commands:

```console
# One-shot build
$ yarn build:mobile
# To develop
$ yarn start:mobile
```

Then you can run the app on the desired platform. For Android:

```console
# Run on a real device
$ yarn android:run
# Run on an emulator
$ yarn android:run:emulator
```

For iOS:

```console
# Run on a real device
$ yarn ios:run
# Run on an emulator
$ yarn ios:run:emulator
```

### Hot reload on mobile app

```
# Replace the host with your own host (find it with ifconfig)
$ env DEV_HOST=192.168.1.36 yarn build:mobile
$ yarn ios:run # at this point the app is blank since it cannot access the files from your host
$ env DEV_HOST=192.168.1.36 yarn start:mobile # launch a webpack-dev-server
```

⚠️⚠️⚠️ If you watch a production build, you must edit the webpack config to have
the filepath without the [hash] otherwise you will not hit the right JS file.

⚠️ You need to have the final `/` at the end of the PUBLIC_PATH, otherwise some some CSS resources like fonts will not load


## Release

A release consists in publishing the app on all platforms: web (via the [Cozy
Registry](https://apps-registry.cozycloud.cc/banks/registry)), Android (via the
Google Play Store, APKs are also linked to [Github
releases](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/releases)) and iOS (via the App
Store).

### Start a release branch

When starting a release, start the checklist PR with :

```
yarn release
```

This will ask for the next version number and create a release branch with it.
If you have [Hub](https://github.com/github/hub) installed (recommended), it
will also create the related pull request for you.

### Workflow

When a release branch is created, features are frozen and the branch should only receive bugfixes.

To create beta versions, you have to do two thinkgs:

* Bump the different version codes in `src/targets/mobile/config.xml` file (see below for more details`android-versionCode`, `ios-CFBundleVersion`, `version` and `AppendUserAgent`)
* Commit it and create a tag with the `X.Y.Z-beta.M` scheme (for example `1.5.0-beta.1`) and push them

The web app beta version will be automatically built and published on the cozy
registry. An APK for Android will also be automatically created. For iOS, you
have to build the app and upload it on Testflight.

### Mobile apps version codes

In the `src/targets/mobile/config.xml` file, you have to update multiple version codes:

* `version`: the generic version code
* `ios-CFBundleVersion`: the version code specific to iOS
* `android-versionCode`: the version code specific to Android
* `AppendUserAgent`: a version code that is appended to the user agent string so we can know which version is related to messages in error logs

Each version code is not built in the same way:

* `version` is the same as `version` in the `package.json`
* `ios-CFBundleVersion` is the same as `version`, but with a fourth number representing the beta version number (for example `1.5.0.1` for `1.5.0-beta.1`)
* For `android-versionCode`, follow the following formula: `beta + patch*100 + minor * 10000 + major * 1000000`. For example, `1.5.1-beta.1` gives us `1050101`
* `AppendUserAgent` is the same as `version`

### Publish manually on the Cozy registry

To publish manually on the Cozy registry, you need a token also stored in Cozy internal [password store](pass):

```
export REGISTRY_TOKEN=`pass registry/spaces/banks/banks.token`
```

After, you can use [cozy-app-publish](https://github.com/cozy/cozy-app-publish) to push the app to the registry.

More information : https://github.com/cozy/cozy-stack/blob/master/docs/registry-publish.md

### Publish to mobile stores

#### Pre-requisites

- Install cordova globally (necessary for the fastlane cordova plugin)

```
yarn global add cordova@<same version as in package.json>
```

- Generate icons

```
yarn mobile:icon
```

On iOS, if the given splashscreens are not to the resoution of the device, iOS
falls back to compatibility mode and adds blacks bars to the top/bottom of the
screen. This is particularly disgraceful on the iPhoneX which has an unusual screen
shape.

To fix this, we use a single splashscreen file and set XCode for it to use
Cordova's launch screen functionality.

`CozyBanks > Resources > Images.xcassets > LaunchStoryBoard > App icons and Launch images > LaunchScreenFile "CDVLaunchScreen"`

- Install Ruby, Bundler and project dependencies

See [Ruby installation page](https://www.ruby-lang.org/fr/documentation/installation/) to get the installation method for your system.

Install Bundler :

```
gem install bundler
```

Then install the project dependencies :

```
cd <path_to_project_root>/src/targets/mobile
bundler
```

- Manage iOS native libraries

```
sudo gem install cocoapods
pod setup
yarn ios:install_pods # Install pods according to the Podfile.lock
```

You must also have the `keys/` folder available from the internal password store.

#### Fastlane

Fastlane is used to manage automatically the deployment process. Its configuration is localed in`src/targets/mobile/fastlane/Fastfile`.

#### iOS

##### Signing

⚠️ You need to have your device registered to iTunes Connect. If you have trouble deploying your app on your device, check that the Build settings in XCode are correct :

While developing, in XCode, in the "Signing" section :

* Check "Manage automatically"
* Team "Cozy Cloud"
* Signing certificate : use a personal certificate belonging to the Cozy team (can be created when you have no matching certificate in the menu > Add an account).

The certificate with its password is stored in the shared password store.

- `cozy-banks/xcode-signing-certificate-password` : the password
- `cozy-banks/xcode-signing-certificate-password.p12` : the certificate


##### iOS build

To push an iOS build on Testflight, use the following command :

```
yarn build:mobile
cd src/targets/mobile
cordova prepare ios
open platforms/ios/Cozy\ Banks.xcworkspace/
# Then in XCode you can first do an archive
# 1. Select Cozy Banks > Any iOS Device (arm64) as generic device
# 2. Menu Product > Archive
# 3. Distribute app
# After the application has been distributed, it is available for
# Testflight testers and @flo can then manually put the testflight
# app in production
```

To fully publish the app, go to iTunes Connect using the credentials in the password store and "submit for review".

When publishing a new version, you have to change the build number.

You can do it in the `config.xml` file by changing the "ios-CFBundleVersion" widget attribute. If you do it in config.xml
you can commit it and push it so that other contributors know at
which version we are.

You can also do it manually in XCode by selecting the "Cozy Banks"
project on the left navbar and then in the "General" tab change
the build number in the "Build" input (in general you just have
to increment the 4th part of the build number). It's not recommended
as other contributors may not know at which build number we are
if the change is not commited. It can be handy while developing
when you do not want to commit/push too often.


#### Android

Anytime a beta is tagged, Travis produces an APK in the Android stage.
In the logs is displayed an URL for the APK that has been built.
This APK can then be tested and then pushed and published in the Play
Developer Console.

## Notifications

### How to develop on templates

With the `TEST_TEMPLATES` environment variable, an express server serving the HTML emails will be built.

```
$ env TEST_TEMPLATES=true yarn watch:services
$ node build/testTemplates.js
Rendering emails at http://localhost:8081!
```

You can open your browser to check the emails. The Preview feature
in Mailchimp is also useful to check that everything is correctly rendered on the various email clients (just copy/paste the content of the page).

#### Under the covers

The templates are [Handlebars](http://handlebarsjs.com/) templates using the
[mjml](https://mjml.io/documentation) language. `mjml` greatly reduces the pains to develop an
email template as it deals with a lot of quirks for you. It features ready-made
components to make responsive email templates. Behind the scene, it uses `React`
to implement custom components, and [juice](https://github.com/Automattic/juice)
to inline the CSS into the HTML. The [handlebars-layouts](https://github.com/shannonmoeller/handlebars-layouts) plugin is used to provide an easy way to extend a base template (à la `jinja`)

Other templates :

```
nodemon --exec "node transactions-notification.js" -e js,css,hbs,json
```

#### Assets

Assets in `assets/` are uploaded to `https://downcloud.cozycloud.cc` on every deployment on CI. It can also be done manually with the `yarn uploadStaticFiles` script.

### Debug notification triggers

To debug notifications, you have to launch a watch on the notifications.js and then
launch it with `cozy-run-dev`.

⚠️ You have to temporarily add `io.cozy.accounts` to your manifest so that you can
create a dev account to test the service.

```diff
       "type": "io.cozy.notifications",
       "verbs": ["POST"]
     },
+    "account": {
+      "description": "Used to send notifications",
+      "type": "io.cozy.accounts",
+      "verbs": ["POST"]
+    },
     "bank.settings": {
       "description": "Used to manage your bank settings",
       "type": "io.cozy.bank.settings",
```


```bash
$ yarn watch:services # will continuously build `build/notifications.js`
$ nodemon --delay 1 -w build/notifications.js --exec "cozy-konnector-dev -t /tmp/token.json -m manifest.webapp build/notifications.js" # will launch build/notifications.js (and relaunch it when it changes) with the right COZY_CREDENTIALS, /tmp/token.json is where the token will be stored
```

#### Emails

To see the emails that the stack sends, launch a MailHog instance :

```
docker run -p 1025:1025 -p 8025:8025 mailhog/mailhog
```

The stack will send the emails through the SMTP port of MailHog and you
will be able to see the mails in its web interface on http://localhost:8025.

#### Push notifications

Similarly, to debug push notifications, you can configure the stack to send
push notifications to a local server, and launch a fake push notifications server
locally.

```
env PORT=3001 node test/e2e/mock-server.js
```

To configure the stack, edit your `cozy.yml` config file:

```patch
+ notifications:
+   android_api_key: 'fake_android_api_key'
+   fcm_server: 'http://localhost:3001'
```


https://github.com/cozy/cozy-banks/tree/master/src/ducks/notifications/html

### When creating a notification

If you want to test the notifications in a workflow that is very close to the real one, you can import some fixtures to trigger the service execution. For that, you must open the `test/fixtures/operations-notifs.json` file and edit the following :

* the `_id` field of the documents, so they are unique and will create a new document
* the `account` field of the `io.cozy.bank.operations` documents to match an account id that exist on the instance you will import the fixtures to
* the dates and the labels to be able to see the imported documents easily

Then you can use [ACH] to import the fixtures :

```console
ACH import test/fixtures/operations-notifs.json test/fixtures/helpers.js --url <instance_url>
```

### End to end tests

#### Alert rules

##### Automatic tests

Alert rules are tested with automatic tests that

- Inserts data inside the local cozy-stack
- Launches the onOperationOrBillCreate service
- Checks on mailhog the emails received
- Checks on a mock push server the push notifications received

```
$ export COZY_URL=http://cozy.tools:8080
$ export COZY_CREDENTIALS=$(cozy-stack instances token-app cozy.tools:8080 banks)
$ docker run -p 1025:1025 -p 8025:8025 mailhog/mailhog
# Deactivate minification with minimize: false in webpack.optimize inside webpack.target.services.js
$ env NODE_ENV=services:production yarn webpack --config webpack.config.js --bail --watch
$ yarn test:e2e:alerts
```

At the moment, it needs to be launched on the computer of the developer but should
be done on the CI in the future.


⚠️  You need to have the services built for production for E2E tests to work.

⚠️ For push notifications tests to work, you need first to configure the stack so that
it uses a fake server that will receive push notifications.

- Add this to your [stack config file](https://docs.cozy.io/en/cozy-stack/config/):

```
notifications:
   android_api_key: 'fake_android_api_key'
   fcm_server: 'http://localhost:3001'
```

##### Manual insertion test

To test on a real Cozy, a script can insert fake transactions on accounts corresponding
to alerts, for the onOperationOrBillCreate service to be started.

```
# Insert fake transactions
yarn test:e2e:alerts-existing-cozy --url https://mydemocozy.mycozy.cloud insert
# Cleanup fake transactions
yarn test:e2e:alerts-existing-cozy --url https://mydemocozy.mycozy.cloud cleanup
```


### Misc

#### Icons

🖼 The PNG icons that are included in the emails are generated manually from the SVG via `scripts/icons-to-png.sh` and uploaded automatically to files.cozycloud.cc via Jenkins (which follows the file `files.cozycloud.cc` at the root of the repo).

## Pouch On Web

If you want activate Pouch on web app, you need:
- a token
- launch your build with `FORCE_POUCH`

```
cozy-stack instances token-cli cozy.tools:8080 $(cat manifest.webapp | jq -r '[.permissions[] | .type] | join(" ")')
env FORCE_POUCH=true yarn start
```

Launch your web application and in console javascript fill in the token and refresh the page:

```
flag('cozyToken', <your token>)
```

Now you can play with replication:

```
cozyClient.links[0].startReplication()
cozyClient.links[0].stopReplication()
```

## Important credentials

All important credentials are stored in Cozy internal [password store](pass).
To import it execute `./scripts/import_mobile_keys`

[pass]: https://www.passwordstore.org/
[ACH]: https://github.com/cozy/ACH
